We're not seeing a new data
structure at this point, right?
We're just simply ordering the data
in the data structure differently.
So let's see, do I have, okay, good.
Let's kind of whiteboard these things out.
We're not going to implement all these
things when we did a doubly linked
list implementation.
This is like that, but
just slightly worse.
It just would take an hour of link
playing, and so I don't wanna do that,
I don't wanna do that.
All right, so let's just talk about,
we can whiteboard it, though.
We've been whiteboarding and
translating these ideas to code.
You guys can do that too.
I'm positive you have the strength and
the mental capabilities to do it.
So let's talk about a binary search tree.
Often you'll see it abbreviated as a BST.
And so a binary search tree
is still a binary tree, but
there's a rule that has to
be applied at every node.
I always draw my trees complete.
So I'll just intentionally draw
this one a non-complete tree.
A complete tree, of course, is where all
left and right is completely filled and
it has the same height.
So this is a non-complete tree,
if you will.
So what's the one rule?
The one rule that you have to be able
to apply at any single node is this.
This side has to be less than or equal to,
this side has to be greater than.
That's the only rule.
Now, you could do this for
some optimization, make it like that,
because there is a case where
like say if you had all fives,
you wouldn't want just
a large line going down.
And so you can make the case why you'd
want to do this versus not having that
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But for our case,
we're gonna keep it pretty darn simple.
We'll just hold to this single case,
which is to the right,
everything is larger than, to the left,
everything is smaller than or equal to me.
Now, what algorithm does
this already sound like?
Let me try putting a P in here.
You agreed yes like you knew.
What is it?
>> I forgot the name of the sort, but
it's one of the sorts, quick one.
>> Quick one, yeah, Quicksort.
Effectively, this looks a lot
like Quicksort, does it not?
We have a point in which we're at.
Everything on this side or everything on
that side of the pivot is this value.
Everything on this side is greater than,
right?
That it's like it's identical
in some sort of sense, and
even has a lot of the same characteristics
of Quicksort, and we're gonna see that.
So there you go, that is the requirement
of a binary search tree.
So let's talk about finding,
say we want to find a value v, right?
There's a v in here and
we want to find it.
It's kind of like Quicksort in this sense,
but it's more like breadth or
a binary search on an array list,
or on an array.
A binary search on array, remember,
we split the thing in half.
And then we say, hey, are you the value?
If it's the value, we leave.
If it's not the value, we have to say,
hey, if I'm larger than the current value,
that means I'm only gonna be
on this side of the tree.
If I'm less than, then I'm only
gonna be on this side of the tree.
And so find is effectively doing
a simplified version of a binary search on
an array.
What you'll effectively see is that it's
much easier to do a find on a binary
search tree than it is
on an ordered array.
It's just much simpler because you
just don't have to manage this low and
high business.
And so let's just kind of walk through it.
Let's kind of write the pseudocode.
So we're gonna do find, and
we're gonna be given a node, and
let's just say we need to
produce out a Boolean.
Is it there or is it not there?
So what we can do is we can do a simple
check of, if this is not like this,
we're at a null point,
we have to return false, right?
Remember, base case is people,
very, very important.
And you can tell we're gonna be doing
a base case or you can tell we're gonna
be doing a depth first search because
we're going down deep, right?
Every single level, we make the same
determination, which way are we going?
Okay, go deeper.
Which way are we going?
So it's a depth first search with
an order to how we traverse.
So if it's not a node,
we obviously return false, right?
Can't do anything here.
We've got to the end and
we did not find our value.
Therefore, we know the value
is not within the structure.
Else, we do a simple check.
If node.value, oop,
I forgot to put v in here, equals v.
No, my if statements are all wrong now.
So if the value of the node is
equivalent to the v, then guess what?
We found the value, right?
So we can return true.
Awesome, right?
Everyone's on board?
If the value of this node is less
than our value we're looking for,
meaning that if we went to the left,
it's only values even smaller,
we need to go to the right.
So we would simply return find,
my goodness,
that is just the worst
spelling of find I've seen
in a long time,
find node right value, right?
We need to go to the larger value section.
We are too big for right here,
let's go to the larger value section.
Or that means there's
only one condition left.
We don't actually need to spell it out.
It just simply means we are smaller
than the current value.
So we need to go to the kids table, right?
We need to go to the smaller value table.
Let's go, so we find, Node left value, and
there we go, that's all we have to do.
If we hit this case,
the whole thing's false.
We've made it to the very end, we've kept
splitting our array in half until we found
that there is no value that's equivalent.
Or we find the value, so we return true.
Everything makes sense?
I think binary search
trees are pretty awesome.
So if I were to write one in, I would
put something like this in here, right?
17, so that means everything on
this side of the tree must be what?
Smaller, right, or equal to.
So I mean, technically,
I could rewrite 17 again, which we will.
And that means this value
is kind of interesting.
Can this value exist?
If we have this condition right here
that it must be larger than 17, and
we have this condition right here,
which means that everything in this
subtree must be equal to or
smaller than, can that tree exist?
No, it can't, cuz I'd have to
put something like 18 in here,
which breaks that, right?
You couldn't actually have that in there.
So even in this case,
we can't actually even put 17 in there, so
let's put something like 15.
So quick question,
can we now put something right here?
Yes, we can put 16 or the value of 17.
So we'll just put 16 right here.
Here, we can put 4, right?
Have we preserved the case for
the upper subtree or for the upper tree?
Yes, we have.
Here, have we preserved the case?
At this point, is everything on
this side larger than my node?
Yes, it is.
Is everything on this side smaller than or
equal to my node?
Yes, it is.
Awesome, so we've preserved the case.
So that's the only requirement of a binary
tree is that we keep on recursively
putting this in.
So I'm gonna have to be kind of
careful on what value I choose here.
So I'll just intentionally
choose a large number,
and then I can choose a smaller number.
And so now that means this
node right here can only
exist within the values of 26 through 50,
right?
It can't be any other value.
You have a question?
>> What's the functional use for this?
What would you use-
>> Functional use is QuickFind, and
we'll see why that is the case.
>> So this is just a way to put IDs on
something to connect it to something else?
I mean, you're just quick finding
numbers that you put in into it?
>> All right, so
the question is what's the use of this?
Why would we actually use this?
What it is for is for quick finding, and
the reason why it's for quick finding is,
imagine we had a list of things
we wanted to search through.
Well, you already have the list, but
what happen if I wanted to
start adding to that list?
What happen if I wanted to
start removing from that list?
It actually makes addition and removal
kind of hard on these lists because now
you have to grow and shrink your array.
Plus, you have to be able to find the spot
in which you want to add or remove from.
And if you add, you have a worst case
of an n running time on an array.
>> So this is for adding to the list?
So if you're-
>> If you have a dynamically changing.
>> Okay, yes.
>> So as it changes, you're still able
to search at a reasonable rate, but
that does come with some
level of consequence.
The good part is just like a linked list,
you can add anywhere at the constant rate.
But there's traversal costs, and B,
things can kinda get a little bit
out of sync when it comes to a tree,
and we'll see that here shortly.
All right, so this node can only
be in this value range, right?
Awesome, what value range
can this node be in?
18 up to 25, right?
That's the only ranges it can be in.
It's really good to be able
to understand this and
kind of walk through the exact
shape of a binary tree.
We do have a question.
>> The right side should be greater
than 17 or can it also be equal to 17?
>> I did kind of mention
that a bit earlier.
If it is equal to,
we can certainly do that.
And I think, imagine if you had a bunch
of very highly repetitive values, say 5.
If you insert it over and over again,
which we'll see the insertion algorithm
here shortly, you could imagine
a world where you have this.
5 points to 5, which points to 5, which
points to 5, which points to 5, right?
You could actually create effectively
a linked list and call it a tree.
And so there is some value in highly
repetitive structures having it so
that both sides can be less than slash
equal to, or greater than slash equal to.
>> So if you're adding 51,
then you have to start another branch?
>> If we add 51, we would have to
start another branch this way,
cuz that side is permanently greater than,
right?
So we're actually gonna
do insertion right now.